and there have been more Israeli raids
in the occupied West Bank soldiers
killed a 21-year-old Palestinian Baker
in the early hours of Sunday morning in
the city of cilia Witnesses say soldiers
indiscriminately opened fire as they
entered the town Israeli forces also
raided homes in noas at least 60
Palestinians have been arrested in the
past 24 hours that includes five girls
and Israeli soldiers also shot and
killed a Palestinian Carpenter and
father of six near nablas the
39-year-old was initially attacked by
Israeli settlers in the town of caroet
bani Hassan settlers then forced him out
of his car and burned it before he was
shot in the neck by an Israeli
soldier elsewhere in the West Bank 10
masked Israeli settlers raided a
Palestinian owned restaurant in the
village of sawiya security camera
footage that you're seeing here captured
the attack which caused significant
damage to the
building okay let's speak to H abdal
Hamid who's in hibron in the occupied
West Bank Huda the release of
Palestinian prisoners during the
week-long ceasefire put the spotlight on
the number of Palestinians that are
still in Israeli jails and also the
treatment that they've been receiving
there I know you've been doing a lot of
reporting on this what can you tell
us well absolutely I mean one could even
argue that the the number released has
been offset by the number of uh
Palestinians taken in as you're saying
60 overnight well out of the 60 eight
are from heon here four uh women and for
uh men now we heard from those coming
out about the ill treatment in prison
especially after October the 7th we're
here at the prisoners Society in Hebron
this is actually the first step for
families uh to come and inquire about
the whereabouts of their of the person
who has been detained because simply
when the soldiers show up usually in the
middle of the night or early morning
they don't give any information as to
where they're taking the the son the
daughter the Father the brother so it is
for the families then a very complicated
process to be able to figure out where
they have taken uh to and for what now
I'm joined by amjad naar he is from the
uh prisoner Society here in heon the
spokesman also for the entire occupied
West
Bank you told me that there is a large
number of the
detes here come from heon almost 13 of
the
3,500 dayes arrested since October 7 why
to begin with hiin is to be uh can be
described as a strien province over the
past 58 days heon was a stage at the
epicenter of all the operations by the
Israeli occupation forces across the
city more than
973 were detained over this short period
of time this is an astronomical figure
within the very short span of time the
Israeli occupation forces the Israeli
occupation government consider heon is
the second most important and Sacred
City to the Jewish people under their
false pretext and false allegations that
heon was the Cradle of prophet Abrahim
that's why the majority of Israeli
radicals and settlers are centered and
residing within this hin that's why the
number is relatively high today more
than 5 100 dayes come from
heon those who were released
spoke to us about very harsh conditions
as we speak the number of detain from
heon more than
446 only in
October before that they exceeded 900
detes you are absolutely correct all
those released from the prisons were
tortured abused verbally and physically
by the Israeli occupation soldiers
behind the bars all these are deay or
files yes those are the administrative
detention the Israeli occupation forces
is the only state on Earth that detain
our people without any trial if you look
at this this detain is poses a threat to
the security of the region and he has a
secret file with the intelligence this
is sufficient to keep you in under
administrative detention from 4 months
to 2
years you spoke to me about
one person who was detained for 18 years
under this administrative
detention execute my question is once a
Palestinian is detained the family tell
us that they do not know about their
whereabouts how can you offer them help
that's true a decision was handed down
by Gallant uh by when the emergency
state was imposed no one is allowed to
collect any information about any detail
before the passage of 8 days this is a
criminal act per se 8 days is too long
one if any is detained his family comes
to us they fill in the relevant
information and we with the little
resources at hand we start gathering
information about the detention centers
however we cannot gather any information
before eight days we can get some
information through the video conference
at the court for 3 minutes
only all those released men and
women they spoke
about
excessive sexual
harassment this particular issue sex
sexual harassment was raised following
the release of the swab deal however
this is not something new since 1967 the
Israeli occupation forces have been
detaining our women and they have been
subjected to physical abuse and sexual
harassment however through out the past
few days the Israeli occupation forces
have been
excessively abusing women Palestinian
women they even POS uh threats they
start even threatened the Deton with
rape blindfolding them physically
harassing them and all these acts were
documented most of the women detes were
subjected to harassment of various
degree from caressing their bodies to
other uh forms of abuse that at the end
of the day they are threatened with rape
this as a statement made by all those
released I interviewed them
personally and they were arest
physically by the Israeli
soldiers however you confirm that no
none of them was raped no none of them
was raped but they were threatened of
being raped as I said a number of the
male soldiers place a Deton woman in the
middle and start to Circle dancing
around
her now once there is a swap deal and
theones women and juvenile are released
and this is was one of the conditions
raised by hamz and I'm sorry we have to
cut it here thank you I mean yes a lot
of thees have been released but more and
more have been taken in and this morning
we spoke to a mother who told me that
the soldier actually bluntly told her
that her daughter was being taken in in
case there's another deal and another
prisoner swap then she will be released
then that's H abdal Hamed reporting from
herbron you've just been interviewing
the head of the Palestinian prisoners
Society thank you very much h